---
Status: Accepted
Date: 04/01/25
Decision-makers: Sam
---

# Using 3-Tier Architecture for the Quizzing Application
## Context and Problem Statement
In order to make a realiable and high performance quizzing application. I need to select an appropriate architectural style.


## Decision Drivers

* Performance
* Useabilty
* Maintainability

## Considered Options

* Event Driven Architecture (EDA)
* 3-Tier Architecture
* Microservices

## Decision Outcome

I have decided to use 3-Tier architecture for this project beacuse it’s simpler, faster to develop, and easier to manage while still supporting real-time features espically for a solo project.  

### Consequences

# Pros
* It allows for modularity and separation, making the system easier to maintain and scale.
* Each layer can be scaled independently based on performance needs.
* It provides a solid foundation for adding new features.
* Security is improved since the client does not have direct access to the database; it is more difficult for a client to obtain unauthorized data. Business logic is more secure because it is stored on a secure central server. (GeeksForGeeks. 2021, June 10)

# Cons
* Introducing clear boundaries between layers requires careful planning and communication between layers, which could increase the initial development time.
* Communication between layers may hinder performance, although this is generally minimal.

### Confirmation



### Pros and Cons of the Options

## Event Driven Architecture (EDA)
EDA is an approach to designing software systems that enables rapid and efficient communication between different components. In this paradigm, different software components communicate with each other using events, rather than through direct requests or responses. Events are generated by different components of a software system, such as frontend or backend. These events are then broadcast to other components of the system, which can subscribe to them and act on them as needed.
# Pros
* Loose coupling - Services that fire events do not need to contain the logic associated with other services' processes. Also, an event broker will retain all messages until they are read by the target service, enabling asynchronous communication.
* Fault tolerance - Since services are decoupled from each other in an event-driven architecture, faults are isolated to individual services. If a subscribing service fails, it doesn't impact the service that sent the event. Communications are queued in a broker until the subscriber is repaired or replaced.
* Reduced technical debt - Even when operating in the same application, EDA allows individual services to operate and update independently. This reduces inter-service dependencies and technical debt between releases.
# Cons 
* Duplicated events - Without appropriate planning and alignment, a single event may trigger multiple duplicate messages across different services, creating gaps in communication.
* Naming convention confusion - When handling numerous publishers and subscribers, it's easy to have duplicate names or naming errors, especially across multiple teams that don't regularly communicate.
* Lack of clear workflow order - Each step along a workflow is triggered when a service or broker is alerted to a particular event. If the receiving component isn't properly calibrated to respond to the event, it will create errors and cause cascading workflow issues.
* Error handling and troubleshooting - A typical web-scale application can easily include hundreds of message brokers and services, all which will need to constantly pass and receive events. Event-driven architecture requires a comprehensive set of monitoring tools and practices that provides visibility into the event flow.

## 3-Tier Architecture
It’s a common way to design complex software systems, and it involves breaking down the system into 3 layers, The Presentation layer, Bussiness logic layer and the data acess layer where each layer is responsible for a specific set of functions. This approach helps to organize code and makes it easier to maintain and modify the system over time.
# Pros
* It allows for modularity and separation, making the system easier to maintain and scale.
* Each layer can be scaled independently based on performance needs.
* It provides a solid foundation for adding new features.
* Security is improved since the client does not have direct access to the database; it is more difficult for a client to obtain unauthorized data. Business logic is more secure because it is stored on a secure central server. (GeeksForGeeks. 2021, June 10)

# Cons
* Introducing clear boundaries between layers requires careful planning and communication between layers, which could increase the initial development time.
* Communication between layers may hinder performance, although this is generally minimal.

## Microservices 
Microservice architecture is a style of software architecture that structures an application as a collection of small, independent services that communicate with each other over a network. Each service is focused on a specific business capability and can be developed, deployed, and scaled independently of other services in the system.
# Pros 
* Improved fault isolation - Larger applications can remain mostly unaffected by the failure of a single module.
* Smaller and faster deployments - Smaller codebases and scope mean quicker deployments.
* Enhance team productivity - Microservices architecture allows small, focused teams to concentrate on a particular service’s development, deployment, and maintenance without being burdened by the complexities of the entire system. 

# Cons
* Communication between services is complex - Since everything is now an independent service, you have to carefully handle requests traveling between your modules.
* Debugging -Each service has its own set of logs to go through.
* Deployment challengers - The product may need coordination among multiple service.

### Comparisons 

### Refernces 
* IBM. (2023). What is Three-Tier Architecture | IBM. Www.ibm.com. https://www.ibm.com/topics/three-tier-architecture
* GeeksForGeeks. (2021, June 10). Advantages and Disadvantages of Three-Tier Architecture in DBMS. GeeksforGeeks. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/advantages-and-disadvantages-of-three-tier-architecture-in-dbms/
* Hou, Xs. (2023, December 6). 12 Software Architecture Styles Software Engineer Should Know. Medium. https://medium.com/@xsronhou/12-software-architecture-styles-software-engineer-should-know-ee92e3b1f9ac

‌
